---
date: 2025-04-29
title: "DataSync CommunityToolkit : Effortlessly Integrating Data in Modern Offline Client"
speakers:
  - Raoul Holzer
  - David Eiwen
InPersonLink: "https://www.meetup.com/dotnet-austria/events/306938843/"
RemoteLink: https://www.meetup.com/dotnet-austria/events/306938890
RecordingLink: ""
Registrations: 0
Participants: 0
Viewers: 0
public: true
abstract: |
  In this talk, we will explore the DataSync CommunityToolkit, a powerful tool designed to simplify the integration of data in modern offline clients. We will discuss how it can be used to synchronize data between local and remote sources, ensuring that your applications remain responsive and up-to-date even when offline.
  The DataSync CommunityToolkit provides a set of APIs and utilities that make it easy to manage data synchronization, conflict resolution, and offline storage. We will demonstrate how to use these features in a practical example, showcasing the benefits of using the toolkit in your applications.
---
Tasks:
- [x] Location fixiert
- [x] Title, Abstract & Bio von Speaker
- [ ] Meetup.com Event angelegt
	- [x] Main - Onsite Event
	- [x] Main - Remote Event
	- [x] Visual Studio User Group Wien - Event
	- [x] .NET User Group Austria - Event
- [ ] Social Media
	- [x] LinkedIn Event
	- [x] Twitter Posts
- [ ] Streaming Prep
	- [x] Grafiken
	- [ ] StreamYard Event
		- [ ] Invite Link an Speaker schicken

## Abstract

Join us for an engaging meetup where we dive into the Datasync Community Toolkit, a powerful collection of packages designed to synchronize data between client and server systems. Developed under the .NET Foundation, this toolkit supports various platforms including ASP.NET Core, .NET MAUI, Uno Platform, and more.

During this session, we will explore:

Key Features: Understand the core functionalities of the Datasync Toolkit, including its support for multiple database management systems.

Getting Started: Learn how to quickly set up your own data sync server and client using the provided templates and tools.

Real-world Applications: Discover practical use cases and examples of how the Datasync Toolkit can be integrated into your projects to keep your data synchronized reliably, including working with offline scenarios.

Limitations and challenges - how we worked around them and contributed improvements to the project.

Additionally, we will discuss the challenges faced by companies in Austria, where not all businesses have reliable internet access. This meetup will provide insights into how the Datasync Toolkit can help overcome these obstacles and ensure seamless data synchronization even in less connected environments.

## Alternative Meetup Group Text

Please register here:  
In-Person: `= this.InPersonLink`
Remote: `= this.RemoteLink`